---
layout: post
title: Paper Deep Dive 1 - Importance Sampling of Many Lights with Adaptive Tree Splitting
---

This is the first post in a series of posts where I try and simplify or "dumb-down" an interesting research paper I come across. I do this mainly as a tool for myself to better understand the paper. If you spot any mistakes or have any criticisms, please [email me](mailto:den.vanee@gmail.com) or comment on this post. Without further ado, let's look at today's paper:

### Introduction

The paper was presented at HPG (High-Performance Graphics) 2018 by Alejandro Conty Estevez and Christopher Kulla of Sony Pictures Imageworks. The problem their trying to solve is how to sample a large number of lights in a scene efficiently. For those who have seen pbrt's implementation, the technique employed there is to either sample *all* lights in the scene or to randomly pick one of the lights. This works for simple scenes with few lights, but as the number of lights grows this becomes inefficient. Everytime our path tracer shoots a ray and hits a surface and we try to sample a light, we either have to sample all lights (thus shooting visibility rays at all of them) which is slow, or sample one light randomly. The latter can lead to noisy results (and thus, make it slower for us to converge) because we are likely to randomly pick one light that is occluded. What we'd like is to sample lights with high contribution. This often means lights that aren't occluded from us and provide a significant amount of incoming radiance.

The paper also mentions "importance sampling". You can read more about it [here](http://www.pbr-book.org/3ed-2018/Monte_Carlo_Integration/Importance_Sampling.html). I expect some basic understanding of Monte Carlo integration and techniques, including importance sampling and multiple importance sampling (MIS). I might later go into detail on these topics, but for now, you can just read [chapter 13](http://www.pbr-book.org/3ed-2018/Monte_Carlo_Integration.html) of *Physically Based Rendering: From Theory to Implementation*.

### The Paper

#### Constructing the Light Hierarchy

Lights are grouped into what the paper calls "clusters". These clusters of lights are represented with three different values: an axis (represented as a vector) and two angels: $$\theta_o$$ and $$\theta_e$$. The first angle, $$\theta_o$$ represents extent the normals of the cluster. So, if your cluster consisted of a single quad ro triangle, then this angle would be $$0$$. For a spherical light source, the angle is $$\pi$$ or $$180^o$$ (I will be using radians from now on).

